#Artist's Statement

While reading the requirements for this project, I got inspired by the sentence saying “the page should both surprise us and lead us to think about the web we know”. It reminded me of how I felt while playing the mobile game “That Level Again”. The game has many variations of a single level but each has a different puzzle. Most solutions lead the player to think outside the box by using multiple functionalities available on a mobile device (e.g. airplane mode) or elements in the user interface. While being surprising, it made me ponder about all the possible interfaces available between me and the game and it got me to think about elements that are technically part of games but not usually used to “play” like menu items or level title.

In the context of web intervention, I wanted to make the user aware and engaged with elements surrounding conventional web browsing or web pages. Among other things, I intended to play with things like real time, window size, inputs and outputs devices, platform, code and retrievable information from the client. I decided to explore these elements using a game in order to make the interaction more inviting and to attract people with a mindset of “keep trying”. However, even though it is called a game, it is not easy nor user friendly. Since it requires some poking around and option changing, the project is addressed to people having good to advance knowledge with web browsing and browser interface. Because it makes the player think outside the box and the context is the web, the game is called “Think Outside the iFrame”. Ah, and the cat theme is simply because I love cats.

###Levels in Details:
 
1.	“My Name is Floof” is a simple level allowing the player to add to the game’s visuals using a text elements which is usually well defined and visible. For the gameplay, it introduces a way to get user input and mostly establish a basic level requirement: having a full bowl with the right cat name on it. On the technical side, I use a hash of the answer for validation to prevent cheating a little bit.  
2.	“My Name is Casper” this time requires the player to inspect the page’s code and directly modify it to change how things appear on the page. 
3.	In “I’m Way Too Lazy”, I aimed to explore the part of a web browser that is the most analog. By having to resize the window, the player gets closer to the materiality of the browser; it makes it more tangible. 
4.	“Only When The Sun Rises” takes two “real world” elements into consideration: time and position. It finds the player latitude and longitude, then uses a web service to get the sunrise time for that area and then check if the time matches based on the client current time and time zone. I found the contrast between this level and traditional web interaction interesting because it disrupt our expectation of having access to everything 24/7 online.
5.	For “I Prefer Spanish” I wanted to make the user interact with his browser options as it is part of common internet experience, but it is rarely necessary to change the options to access anything. One other good option could have been to require the player to clear his cache.
6.	“What is a Cat?” is my best attempt at addressing the web as a network and how other pieces of this network are actively related to the game. I also thought of building a riddle that could only be solved by going to another website, but having the browsing visually change the content of the game was more effective. On a side note I learned that there are a lot of limitations regarding the “:visited” selector because of privacy protection. Therefore, I couldn’t simply hide the button using “display: none” or “visible: hidden”, I could only change the text color to have the same color as the background.
7.	“My name is” is a similar puzzle to “My name is Floof” except that this time the player has to look further than the inner browser frame: in the title displayed on the tab. 
8.	“Better turning it off before eating” was much easier to make than expected. I initially wanted to send a request to a service and check if it failed to know if the user is offline. I the end I could simply use the boolean “navigator.onLine”. The level aims at tackling the idea of web, but offline. My initial idea was to find a way to force the player to download the page and use it locally, but it was too involved.
9.	“Only my favorite box” plays with the idea of environment / platform. For most user the browser used is not something they are concerned with as they all mostly do the same job. Having the players think about their browser as different from the others was my intention. A similar level could be done by checking the current platform (desktop vs mobile).
10.	“Tokyo de tabetai” requires the player to physically move to another area. It is similar to “Only when the sun rises” because it subvert the user expectations that the internet is accessible regardless of where you are. It reminds me of how frustrated and outraged I felt the first time I saw the lines “This video is unavailable for your country”. Also, since the page’s language is in Japanese, it forces the player to use another website to translate or to right click and translate the page. 
